---
title: 'Flutter 시작하기'
date: '2024-08-23'
updatedDate: ''
image: ''
excerpt: ''
tag: 'Flutter'
---

### **Intro**

- I started learning Flutter to develop my own app.
- The reference for my blog post is the free Flutter course from [nomad coders](https://nomadcoders.co/flutter-for-beginners/lobby)

### **What is Flutter?**

- Cross-platform framework (iOS, Android, web, macOS, Windows, Linux, and embedded systems...)
- Never talks directly to the OS
- Unlike other cross-platform frameworks, it works more like game engines (C, C++)
- Flutter engine compiles Flutter code to render UI (paints UI)
  - So, Flutter doesn’t use OS built-in widgets.
  - The compiled code includes a 'runner' which launches the Flutter app (runs the Flutter engine)
- Embedder - the 'runner' project
  - Platform-specific (depends on the OS)
  - It starts the engine on the host platform

### **Flutter vs RN**

- RN uses native UI and looks more native.
- Flutter is better when the app needs extensive customization.

### **Start Flutter**

[https://docs.flutter.dev/get-started/install](https://docs.flutter.dev/get-started/install)

- To install Flutter, check this document and follow the instructions.
- Then run `flutter doctor` to see what additional setup is needed.

**Extensions** (for VS Code)

- Dart
- Flutter

Good developer experience when using VS Code’s debug mode.

### **Widget**

- Everything in Flutter is a widget
- Similar to React components (the concept.)
- To create a widget from a class, extend the abstract `Widget` class
- The extended `build` method will return a UI widget.
- `material`: Google design system
- `cupertino`: Apple design system
  - One of the two must be returned and passed to the `runApp` function
  - This will be the root of the entire application.
- It indicates the kind of style that will be displayed (Android-like | iOS-like)
- But it’s just a starting point for the app, so it should be chosen even if it will be customized.
- Since Flutter is made by Google, `MaterialApp` is often preferred.

### **Scaffold**

- A Flutter app should have a scaffold
- Defines the structure of the screen

### **Sample code is..**

```dart
import 'package:flutter/cupertino.dart';
import 'package:flutter/material.dart';

void main() {
  runApp(App());
}

class App extends StatelessWidget {
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return MaterialApp(
      home: Scaffold(
        appBar: AppBar(
          title: Text('Hello Flutter'),
        ),
        body: Center(
          child: Text('Hello world'),
        ),
      ),
    );
  }
}
```
